[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here, I'm on the road.
And today I'm in San Diego
because there's a
big meeting happening
with a transformational
leadership council.
And I just TLC and there's so
many beautiful awesome leaders,
New York Times best
sellers that are here.
And I had to cover a
few interviews here
for Gaiam specifically because
I know that your, that you want
to live the juiciest life ever.
And, and here we're going to
speak about the love attraction
and how to attract our soulmates
and really just have this
beautiful amazing life all the
way and even in the
relationship area.
That's a big one, huh?
>> Arielle Ford: Yeah,
everybody wants love.
Do you want to know the
story of why we want love?
So a long time ago during the
time of Socrates and those guys
in Greece there were these
beings that lived on the planet.
They were big rolley polley
beings and they had four arms
and they had four legs and
they had two sets of genitalia.
And they just rolled all over
the earth laughing and playing,
giggling and having fun.
And Zeus who was up
in the heavens felt
like these beings
weren't honoring the Gods
and the Goddesses enough.
And he was very angry with them.
So he took out his sword
and he sliced them in half
and suddenly they were
beings that only had two arms
and two legs and one
set of genitalia.
And since that time we've been
searching the planet looking
for our other half.
So that's why we seek love and
we desire to have a soulmate
and we so want to
reconnect with the right one.
>> Lilou: Why did you decide to
write this book on soulmates?
Because I know this is a, I mean
you devoted your life to it now.
>> Arielle Ford: Yeah well I
actually never thought a book
called The Soulmate Secret
but what happened was
when I was 43 years old I woke
up one morning and I thought
to myself, oh my God I
forgot to get married.
And I started thinking
about my life and I saw
that I had created this
amazing business and career.
And when I'd looked
at how I had done it,
I had used the law
of attraction.
Back in the day when I
learned it it wasn't called
that it was just
called manifestation.
So I had all these prayers
and rituals and processes
that I used to make stuff happen
to co-create with the universe.
And I started wondering well,
if it worked so well in my life,
would it work in my love life?
And I had no idea.
So I made a list of
everything that I knew how to do
and I started doing the list
and within 6 months I
manifested the most amazing guy
on the planet.
I mean, loving, kind, generous,
sexy, hot, devoted, fun,
spiritual, everything.
And we had this very
magical meeting.
Three weeks after we
met we got engaged.
And a year later we
had three weddings.
And we just celebrated
out 15th anniversary.
>> Lilou: What do you
mean three weddings?
>> AF: We had three weddings.
So the first wedding
was performed by Amma,
the hugging saint from India.
Now it was a Hindu ceremony
but it wasn't legal.
So then we wanted to
have a legal wedding.
And at the time I was doing
publicity for Kenny Loggins.
So he agreed to be
ordained as a minister.
So he was both our officiant
and our wedding singer.
So we had this great big amazing
wedding in Santa Barbara.
And then we had a third
wedding with another client
of mine who was a wicken.
And we did a pagan hand
fasting on top of a mountain.
So we literally had
three weddings.
>> Lilou: So can we say that
meeting your soulmate is kind
of bringing the earth
and the heavens together
and living this,
really this [inaudible]
>> AF: It's heaven on
earth, yeah, absolutely.
You know and so you're asking
me why I wrote the book.
Well I never intended
to write the book
but what happened was I guess
about six or seven years
after we got married somebody
asked me to give a talk.
They said share with my 200
coaches how you manifested
your soulmate.
So I stood up and I did
this 45 minute talk.
And then 200 people came at
me saying where's the book?
Where's the book?
I need to know how to do this.
So that's how the
book came to be.
There was just this
demand for it
because every time I
would share my process,
it would work for somebody.
This process works for men and
women, any age, any height,
any weight, any income level.
It even worked for my 80
year old mother-in-law.
>> Lilou: And it even works not
only for relationship I guess
but also to attract the
life that we truly desire.
>> AF: Right.
Well the basic principles
involved you can apply
to anything.
I had started off using them
for my career in business
and lifestyle and
moved them into love.
But you could start with love
and move them into other areas
because what I discovered
that really works best
for me is first having clarity.
What is my heart calling for?
What I do I most desire?
What do I want it to look like?
So it could be you're just
looking for a new place to live,
you know, or it could be you're
looking for you true love
or a new job or, you know,
maybe even the perfect
little black dress.
You know, but you
have to have clarity.
What is the desire?
And then you have to go into
action with it, you know.
Like what do I need to do next?
And then you have to
spend time feeling
or what I call a feelingization.
How are you going to feel
in that little black dress?
Like you may not know what store
it's in, but how am I going
to feel when I'm wearing it?
And then it'll just
come to you, you know,
where you need to go shopping.
So there's a whole bits and
pieces of processes to do
to co-create with the
universe and make stuff happen.
>> Lilou: I love when you
mention the dress because it's
like as woman or
women doing the same,
searching for the men the
same way they're searching
for the dress.
That's not going to work is it?
>> AF: Well actually
it does work.
It's very similar the
way that it works, okay.
So let's just talk
about it from, you know,
the relationship
perspective because people
who don't have a soulmate
definitely desire one.
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> AF: So I would say
the first step you want
to do is let's clear
out the past
and do some forgiveness work.
You know, let's forgive
ourselves
for all the mistakes we've made,
all the bad choices
we made in the past.
And then let's forgive the ones
who are saying have
done us wrong.
You know, and it's not
that hard to forgive.
You first have to be willing.
You know, that's the first part.
And it doesn't mean that you're
condoning anybody's behavior,
you're not giving them a pass,
but you're just saying you
know what, I forgive you,
I bless you, I let you go.
And there's lots
of ways to do that.
And then the second
process we talked
about is getting to clarity.
You know, how do
you want to feel
when you're with this person?
Do you want to loved,
cherished, adored, devoted to?
And then what kind of qualities
would this kind of person have?
Would they be loving, kind,
affectionate, generous?
So it's a different kind of wish
then then, he's got to be 6'2",
180 pounds, you know,
work as an accountant,
make X amount of dollars a year.
Not that you have to not
ask for those things,
you can if they're really,
really, really important to you
but it's more important
to create something
that you're going to feel the
way you most want to feel.
So you see there's
a distinction there.
So when I was making
my soulmate wish list,
I first looked to the past.
I looked at the long term
relationships I had in the past.
And the guys were
kind of similar.
They were super ambitious, type
A, captain of the universe,
uber successful kind of guys.
Now those kind of guys don't
have the time or the energy
to devote to a relationship
or to a particular woman.
And so when I asked my
soul what do I most need
in a relationship?
I needed somebody who's
really generous but generous
with their time and their
affection and their attention.
I wanted to be someone who I
was their universe for them.
I need, that's what, it was
embarrassing to admit at first
but I needed somebody who would
really pay attention to me.
So the first thing I put on my
list was generous with his time
and energy and love
and affection.
You know, did I want somebody
who was also really
brilliant and successful?
Yes, but it wasn't the
first thing on the list.
The only physical
attribute I had
on the list was I wanted
somebody with gray hair.
And I didn't know why or excuse
me, where that was coming from.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> AF: But gray hair
kept popping up.
So I put it on the list.
>> Lilou: Yeah that's
one of those things.
Sometimes we don't know if
it's coming from something
that we know that we're going
to have or if it's, you know,
our imagination or but it
kept on, yeah coming back.
>> AF: Whenever I
would think about being
with my soulmate I saw
somebody with gray hair.
And I assumed that meant he
would be much older than me.
But the truth was Brian
went gray in his 30s.
So he did have salt and
pepper hair when we met.
So creating this
list is a really,
really important
piece of the puzzle.
And you want to ask
yourself with every trait
that you write down,
will this contribute
to my long term happiness.
And if the answer
is no not really,
then take it off the list.
It's not important.
So, I made this long list
and then I showed it
to my best friend.
And I said did I
leave anything off?
And she said yes, you left off
something really important.
It's like what's that?
She said he has to
be a cat lover
because I have always had cats.
And I had dated guys who
were allergic to cats
and trust me it's not pretty.
You know, they're
coughing, sneezing, choking,
their eyes are running,
their nose is running.
You know, that would
have been a deal breaker.
So you make this list and then
you have a trusted friend review
it with you to make sure you
didn't leave off anything
really important.
I also had some silly
things on my list
or they weren't silly to me.
Like, I wanted somebody who
had English as a first language
because I had dated
men from other,
who spoke other languages.
And even though they
were fluent in English,
the communication is different.
We have different meanings
for different words.
And being that I'm all
about communication,
I knew that English as a
first language is important.
I also somebody who
enjoyed walking and hiking
because that's something I do
every day and I wanted somebody
to walk and hike with.
So those are the
kinds of things.
You want to have heart
traits and qualities.
And then you want to
have your lifestyle.
What do you want your life
together to look like?
You know, it's important to
know, do you want children
or don't you want children?
You know, I knew from an early
age I never wanted to have kids.
In fact the very first
day Brian and I met,
I told him I didn't
want to have children.
I couldn't believe I
said it but I did say it.
So you want to make
this list and I'm going
to tell you right now
what the first thing
on everybody's list should be
because I think it's
pretty much universal.
You want somebody who is
open, willing and available
for a long term committed,
monogamous married
or relationship depending
on which one you want.
And the reason I say that is
because you could do this
whole list but, you know,
if they're already married
to somebody else
they're not available.
So it's important to
have available on there.
You know, or I know one woman
who made this whole list
and the man that she
manifested was gay.
And they couldn't change that
even though he met the list
and they got, they were
great friends, you know,
she fell in love with him.
So I would say open,
willing, available, straight
or gay depending
on what you want
for a long term committed
monogamous relationship
with kids if you want kids
or leave it off if you don't.
But that's like number
one on the list.
>> Lilou: Yeah and for the
releasing part you advise
to just write that on the letter
and then burn it and release it?
Is that part of the process?
>> AF: So once you
have your list
and it's complete then
you should write it
out on a beautiful piece of
stationary and create a ritual
to release it to the universe.
I'll share with you what I did
and then I'll tell you
other ways to do it.
So what I did is I got
out my calendar and I saw
that there was a new
moon coming up which is
when I always start
new projects.
And I went down to
the ocean with my list
and I read through it.
And I said a nice prayer
of gratitude over it
and I thanked the universe
for sending me my
perfect right partner.
And then I burned the list
and I scattered the
ashes into the ocean.
And then I took myself to lunch
and I ordered a glass
of champagne.
And in my mind I
toasted my soulmate.
And I said the cosmic
welcome mat is now open.
Show up whenever you can.
>> Lilou: But it had
to be a romantic man.
>> AF: Yes, very romantic.
>> Lilou: He had to
with this process.
>> AF: Exactly.
But if that sounds too strange
or too complicated then you take
your list and you can put it
in a red or pink envelope,
put it under your pillow,
you can put it under
your mattress.
If you have a favorite
spiritual book,
if you have a sacred alter
you can put it on top
of your alter or
under your alter.
Or one of my favorite things to
do is write it on a small piece
of paper, roll it up like a
scroll, put it inside a pink
or red helium balloon and then
release it to the heavens.
>> Lilou: Because it's important
that releasing and knowing
and trusting that the
universe is not there to get us
but is there to co-create.
>> AF: Yeah I mean, imagine
you want to plan a garden.
You know, you go and you till
the soil, you put in the seeds,
you add water and
some fertilizer.
And then you don't go out
there with a flashlight at 3:00
in the morning and
pull on the leaf
and say grow faster,
grow faster.
You don't do that
because you trust
that Mother Nature is
going to grow this for you.
So it's the same
thing with your list.
You get clarity, you write your
list, you release your list
and then you know and you
trust and you let it go.
>> Lilou: And that's a big part
that wasn't too specific
on the secret maybe.
Because I know a lot of the
secret was taught here actually
with this group of people.
So, what do you think that
missing component was?
>> AF: Yeah, the missing part
in the secret was the
emotional component.
So it's ask, believe, receive.
Now you can ask, believe,
receive until you're blue
in the face but if you
don't feel in your body
that you're deserving of
what you've asked for,
that what you've asked
for is already yours
on some level, it
can't come to you.
Because the law of attraction
states we draw to us the people,
places and experiences that
match our state of being.
So if my state of being is
I'm so fortunate to have
so much love in my life,
what do you think I'm going
to get more of?
Right, more love, I can't
help but have more love.
But if my thinking is I want
love but I'm such a loser,
I don't deserve love,
I'm too old, I'm too fat,
I'm too damaged, all
the good ones are taken
that is going to
be my experience.
So what I did for myself
was I invented a process
that I call a feelingization.
So a visualization takes
place in your head.
A feelingization I drop you
from your head to your heart
and then we re-experience
moments in our life
where we felt love or
gratitude or appreciation.
And then once you're in those
states, in those feelings,
then you drop in the
desires for a soulmate
as if it's happening
right now in this moment
because quantum physics
has proven
that the unified field exists.
You and I are already connected.
This is the first
time we're meeting
and we're sharing molecules
but on some field we've
been connected forever.
You are already connected
to your soulmate.
All you need to do is
drop into your heart,
get present to what
love feels like
and we've all experienced love.
And I want to say even your
pets can be your soulmates.
So if you're insisting nobody
loves you but you have a dog
that loves you, tap into the
feeling of your dog looking
into your eyes and loving you.
And then know that on some
cosmic level you can begin the
conversation today
with your soulmate.
You can begin to talk to them.
You can begin to
welcome them in.
>> Lilou: And once you have
released and you feel it
and there's really not much to
do or just follow your intuition
and go to certain places or how
do you actually live your life
from that point forward?
>> AF: Really good question.
So there's a couple of things.
First thing I would do is what
I call creating a vision board
or treasure map where you
cut out pictures and images
and words from magazines
and collage them
so that you're making a visual
representation of the future
that you're co-creating.
And then you, and spend
some time meditating
with this every day, you
know, just being with it
and projecting yourself
into the future
and feeling it and seeing it.
And then I like to
feather the nest.
I like to prepare my
home for a soulmate.
So one of the first things I
would suggest that you do is
if you lived with a partner
in this home in the past,
their energy is still there and
you want to clear the energy
out even if it was
a good relationship.
You want to clear the
decks, clean the space.
So one of the easiest
things to do is
to hire a professional
energy worker
and have him do it for you.
Or you can do the Native
American technique of smudging
where you get some sage, put
it on a plate, have it smoking
and then you take the smoke
and you run it over the doors
and the windows and in
and out all the closets.
And this sacred smoke
purifies your space.
So you're cleaning the space.
I also like to use
a little Feng Shui
where clear out the clutter.
We all know that
clutter blocks energy.
And then I like to literally
create space in the home.
So you want to go
into your bedroom
and make sure the night stand on
their side of the bed is empty
and ready for their stuff.
Clean out one drawer
in the dresser.
Make one drawer totally
empty just for them.
Give them a few inches
in the closet
so they can hang a few things.
You know, if you're
really generous go out
and buy them a new bathrobe and
leave the tags hanging on it
so that they know you've
been expecting them
and welcoming them
and that, you know,
they have a toothbrush
and a bathrobe here.
You know, clear out half a
shelf in the bathroom cabinet.
If you have a two car
garage, park on your side.
Make space for their car.
You've probably heard the phrase
that nature abhors a vacuum.
So this is why we're
literally making space.
We're sending this message to
the universe hey, over here,
I've got room in my
life for another person.
And then I also want you to
make space in your calendar.
Don't fill up every minute of
every day with things to do.
You know, like if
it's a Thursday night,
block out 8:00 to 10:00 o'clock.
Date with my soulmate.
Now they might not show
up on that Thursday
but you've created the space.
Use that space creatively.
Use that space to savor the
waiting of your soulmate,
to anticipate their arrival
to enjoy how much freedom
you have in this moment.
Because what no one will tell
you is once your soulmate
arrives, you don't get
that time back ever again.
You don't get that alone time.
Now everything has
to be coordinated.
What are you doing?
Where are you going?
When are we together?
When are we not together?
So this, these last
days of being single,
treat them for what they are.
They're precious moments.
You know, what are
you going to use them
for that you won't be
able to do in the future?
>> Lilou: And then
the real healing
and the real work starts I feel
when we meet our soulmate, no?
>> AF: Yes.
>> Lilou: It brings
up a lot of stuff.
>> AF: Yeah, actually Harville
Hendrix has this great line
about it.
He says, you know you're
in the right relationship
when it starts off
as a dream come true
and then rapidly devolves
into your worst nightmare.
And the reason for this is
because a true sacred
relationship will kick
up all your childhood wounds.
And we're there to
heal each other.
You know, you've heard the
phrase relationships are
a mirror.
You know, it always looks
like the problem's over there
but really a lot of times
the problem's over here
and they're reflecting
back to us the places
in which we're wounded or
unhealed or have hurts.
And we need to work
things through.
So a relationship's a growing
and healing process too.
>> Lilou: Do we have to
say no to some other,
for people looking
for their soulmate.
Do they have to say no to people
coming in or Mr. Right Now
or other men until it really
fits and really feels great?
>> AF: Well yes.
The simple answer is yes but the
way I believe it is if you're
with somebody right
now and you know
with certainty they're not
your soulmate then why are you
spending time with them?
It's like trying to put two
cars in one parking space.
It's not possible.
So if somebody else's energy is
taking up space in your life,
it's blocking love which is why
I tell people if you're serious
about manifesting your
soulmate, you're not going
to be having random
casual sex with anybody
who isn't your soulmate.
Because when we're intimate
with another human being
we leave energetic hooks
in each other, we're
energetically connected more
so for women then for men.
So if you're having sex
with your neighbor or sex
with your ex because it's fun
and it's relaxing or whatever,
you're really blocking
the process.
Because if I said to you,
Lilou I guarantee you your
soulmate's going to knock
on your door in 72 hours,
would you have sex this
afternoon with your ex?
You wouldn't right?
And we don't know when the
soulmate's going to arrive.
Now I'm not saying you
don't have any sex at all.
Self-pleasure is a great
thing to do and, you know,
I know you've been talking to
lots of people like John Gray
who talk about oxytocin.
Not a problem with that.
But if you're serious about
manifesting your true love,
your soulmate, then that's who
you want to be having sex with.
Now one other piece of this
because I know you've got
a sophisticated audience.
If you are self-pleasuring,
you know, at the point
of orgasm send all that
energy to your soulmate
that you haven't met yet.
Send that love to them.
Because, you know,
people, people, you know,
they say can I fanaticize
about somebody?
Yeah, fanaticize about
the one who's coming.
You don't have to
know their face.
But fanaticize how great it's
going to be to be with them.
And then send them
all that energy.
>> Lilou: Oh my God,
I had actually had a fantastic
conversation with Sarina Stone
that is all about actually
recycling the orgasmic energy
so that we can reduce
the aging process, huh?
That's also a whole
other conversation.
But she would say no, no, no,
don't release, don't release.
So I love how different people
have different perspective
and that's all good, you know.
I love remaining open
to all this although some
things fit better than others.
>> AF: I've heard that for men
that they should recycle it
but I've never heard that
it was good for women to do.
I'd have to see the
research on it.
>> Lilou: And how is that,
yeah she did [inaudible]
>> AF: Dallas [inaudible]
I'm not a Dallas,
I'm all about you know
what, pleasure is pleasure
and we all need more of
it and builds oxytocin
and it builds serotonin.
And, you know, we're working
hard enough so I'd say go
for the pleasure myself.
>> Lilou: Yes.
Once we meet our soulmate then
do you have some recommendation
there so that we don't
push this big love away?
>> AF: And I would say before
you meet your soulmate become a
student of love.
You know, do you like to cook?
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> AF: Okay, how many cookbooks
do you have in your kitchen?
>> Lilou: Few.
>> AF: Just a few?
>> Lilou: Yeah just
a few because I
like to be spontaneous
and creative.
>> AF: All right but most cooks
have like at least 10 all right
because that's a subject
they're passionate about.
So if you're passionate
about having a great
relationship, you want to study.
What does it take to
have great communication
and great compatibility
and be a wonderful partner?
You know, we are not born
knowing how to do this.
And most of us didn't
grow up with parents
who demonstrated how
to have a deeply loving
satisfying relationship.
So I say become a
student of love now.
There are wonderful books and
workshops and teleseminars
and twice a year I
do these free events.
You can go lovesummit.com
to see them
where you can get this
information and learn how
to be a fabulous partner.
>> Lilou: Any other
advice that you would
like to close this beautiful
conversation that is important
to talk about when we
talk about soulmates?
>> AF: Yeah, I would
really want to remind people
that big love is possible for
everybody, absolutely everybody.
Regardless of your
age or weight or size
or the only thing you need
to do is be willing to give
up some old myths
and negative beliefs.
And then put a little time
and energy and intention
and attention onto
your love life
because we're all
deserving of great love.
>> Lilou: I have one last
little question actually
that just popped because
I read this on your site.
It was possible to turn
a mate into a soulmate?
>> AF: Yes, that's the
subject of my latest book.
It's called Wabi Sabi
Love - The Ancient Art
of Finding Perfect Love in
Imperfect Relationships.
And it's all about how to be
more playful and have more fun
and take the stuff that
makes you absolutely crazy
about your mate and
make it something
that you can really
fall in love with.
>> Lilou: So, any other tips?
Where do we start because
there is some things,
I know that this is, let's just
go on for five more minutes
on this because this
is important.
I feel that many people
do love their partner
and things have shifted and
changed and maybe it's not
at the same place of magic
and where it was before.
But there's so many
beautiful memories and there's
so many beautiful things and
I do believe deep in my heart
that people can transform
and change.
>> AF: Well it's not so much
about the other person changing.
>> Lilou: As we change.
>> AF: Yeah, so Wabi Sabi's
an ancient Japanese aesthetic
that honors all things old,
worn, weathered, imperfect,
impermanent and it
seeks to find beauty
and perfection in imperfection.
So let's say we had a big vase
and it had a crooked crack
down the middle of it.
The Japanese would put this
broken vase on a pedestal
and then they would shine
a spotlight on the crack.
So in Wabi Sabi Love we learn
to love and accept the cracks
in ourselves and
especially those of our mate.
And the way that we do that
is we realize they didn't wake
up this morning thinking
how am I going
to drive my wife crazy today?
They're not thinking that way.
They're waking up the same way
we wake up which is I just want
to be loved and accepted
for exactly who I am.
So if they're doing things
that are making you crazy,
it's not because they
purposely want to do it,
they may just have a blind spot
to it and it may be the thing
that you don't like
the way it is,
so you have to find a
fun way to deal with it.
And I'll give you a
couple of examples.
So, so when it comes
to toothpaste,
I like to squeeze my toothpaste
from the bottom and roll it up.
Brian comes in, he grabs the
toothpaste and he squeezes
from the middle and he
mangles the tube of toothpaste.
So the first couple years we
were married every time I looked
at my messed up tube of
toothpaste I'd say to him,
why can't you do it right?
Why can't you just
squeeze it from the bottom?
And he would look at me like
are you out of your mind?
Are you crazy?
You know, and it
would never change.
I could complain about it for
years but it would never change.
So one day I'm thinking okay,
what's the Wabi Sabi
solution to the toothpaste?
I'm looking at it,
I'm looking it
and I can't think of anything.
And finally it hits me.
Thank God I married a man
who brushes his teeth.
Now every time I
see the toothpaste
and I'm straightening
it out, I'm happy.
>> Lilou: Grateful.
>> AF: I'm so grateful he
brushed his teeth again.
Now that's sounds like a
simple thing but the shift
that was made, he didn't change,
my story about the
toothpaste changed.
And you can do this
with anything.
So here's how he did it with me.
You know, I'm a real
slob in the kitchen.
I'm really sloppy.
And he would be saying to me,
why do you always leave
crumbs on the counter?
I said I did?
I do? I don't see the crumbs.
After months of this he said
to me he goes, you know,
I figured something out.
He said the crumbs bother
me, they don't bother you
so I'm just going to
clean up after you.
I mean, it's just that simple.
Now of course this doesn't
work for everything.
If there's bad behavior,
abuse or addiction,
you can't Wabi Sabi
your way out of that.
You need professional help.
But anything else, any
other annoying traits,
find some lighthearted
humorous way to shift on this.
>> Lilou: How about in a couple
where the other one is
not spiritual and that,
and you had a spiritual
awakening and it drives you nuts
that the other one
doesn't get it?
>> AF: Because you're not as
spiritual as you think you are,
you're being judging,
you're being judgmental.
This happened to
a friend of mine
and the story's in
Wabi Sabi Love.
So my friend Jill always dated
these very new agey spiritual
guys who were just like her.
They were raw, vegan, organic
cotton clothing wearing,
always shopped at
Gaiam, always, you know.
Did yoga, chanted,
prayed, you know,
consider themselves
very spiritual.
Those were her guys.
Then she moved home
to New Jersey,
ran into her ex-boyfriend from
college, they fell in love,
they got engaged, they
moved into together.
And every time I talked to
her, when's the wedding?
When's the wedding?
Oh I don't know, I don't know.
Finally after four years it's
like what's going on with you?
She said I can't marry him.
I said why?
He's just not spiritual enough.
It's like what do
you mean by that?
She said well, you know, he
works as a motorcycle repairman,
he goes hunting, he
brings home ducks
and he eats meat, you know.
He does all these things.
He doesn't pray, he doesn't
meditate, he doesn't do yoga,
he's just not spiritual enough.
So they broke up but this was
when the recession started
and they couldn't
afford to separate.
So they lived together.
Then she got really,
really sick.
And he took really
good care of her.
And then finally she got better.
And then one morning he
came through the backdoor
with his rifle and his hunting
dog and a couple of dead ducks
and she said to him,
how was your morning?
And he said to her it was so
beautiful, the sun was coming up
and the light was
filtering through the leaves
and I could hear the leaves
crunching under my boots.
And it was just, and she's
thinking to herself, oh my God,
he's describing a temple, right.
And she's starting
to get this hint.
Oh maybe that's his
spirituality.
Then a few days later
he comes home from work
in tears, he's all upset.
What's the matter?
My boss Bob died today.
He had a heart attack, he died.
The funeral's in two days.
Would you go with me?
And she said oh yes,
of course I'll go.
Now the thing I haven't told you
is he's very shy, this boyfriend
of hers, very, very shy.
So they go to the funeral,
300 bikers are there,
somebody gives the eulogy.
And at the end they say if
anybody else would like to come
up and say a few works
about Bob do it now.
Nobody moved.
Suddenly her finance Ray is
out of his chair, he's standing
in front of the room
and he's talking
about what a good man Bob was.
He was a good father,
a good brother,
a good boss, a good friend.
And now Jill is in tears because
she has this Wabi Sabi epiphany.
She realizes she is not the
spiritually awakened one
in this relationship, he is.
But because his spirituality
didn't look like hers,
she's been sitting in
judgment all these years.
And now they're finally
happily together.
So, you know, this whole thing
that we're judging people
just creates toxicity.
You know, what you want to
look at is how do you feel
when you're with them, you know?
Are you loving each
other, you know?
Are you creating
a life together?
Are they a good person?
You know, for some people the
most spiritual experience they
can have is a pick-up
basketball game, you know,
where they're being
a team player
and they're being a
good person, you know.
Well are they giving the
homeless person money?
That's a spiritual act.
You know, you can be eating
the cleanest diet in the world
and still get cancer,
you know, so.
I really caution women to, you
know, he's got to be spiritual.
You know, I understand if
you're a practicing Catholic
and you want to raise your
children Catholic and you want
to go to mass every week,
that's a deal breaker,
that's a requirement.
But for those of us who claim
to be awakened and conscious,
we need to broaden our
beliefs about spirituality.
>> Lilou: Beautiful.
Thank you so much Arielle
for this juicy conversation.
>> AF: You're so welcome.
Thanks for having me.
>> Lilou: Big, big kisses to you
beautiful co-creator out there.
[ Music ]